README.md, before:

# NixOS

## Intro

Now that the etc/nixos/configuration.nix file has been moved to ~/nixos AND it's been refactored to be a flake. We need to rebuild the OS as a flake with:
```bash
sudo nixos-rebuild switch --flake ./#HOST_NAME
# Or
nixos-switch # If the alias is available.
```

# Development or making changes

- When updating the flake, i.e. the `flake.lock` file, always make a new branch for those changes.
- Small changes can be made directly to the `main` branch.
- Otherwise large features should have a new branch.

## Notes

* Note the *#HOST_NAME*, this references the name of the config in `nixosConfigurations` within *~/nixos/flake.nix*
* You can run `man home-configuration.nix` to get a list of useful home-manager settings and configurations.
* When making new nix files, **make sure to commit them first**, otherwise nix will not be able to find them.
* */boot/kernels* may occasionally fill up with unused linux kernels and need to be manually cleaned up, i.e. `sudo rm /boot/kernels/*6.6.33*`
* Nix caches build results, so if no files have changed, running a build again will produce the same output or error. Keep this in mine when trying to fix an error like the */boot* disk space issue.

Commit message:

feature/secrets (#11)
* Added sops and age

* Added secrets and sops yaml files

* Modified secrets

* Added a comment

* Added sops config

* Some readme todo

* Updated flake.lock

* Moved gnome pkgs to where they now should be

* Remove some stuff that causes build to fail

* More info in README.md

* Remove import

* Update flake

* Added edit-secrets command to makefile

* Renabled stuff that wasn't building

* Moved sops stuff to secrets.nix

* Commented out edit-secrets command

* Removed some todos

* No longer going to store ssh files in sops

* Moved secrets.nix import to common

README.md, after:

# NixOS

## Intro

Now that the etc/nixos/configuration.nix file has been moved to ~/nixos AND it's been refactored to be a flake. We need to rebuild the OS as a flake with:
```bash
sudo nixos-rebuild switch --flake ./#HOST_NAME
# Or
nixos-switch # If the alias is available.
```

## Development or making changes

- When updating the flake, i.e. the `flake.lock` file, always make a new branch for those changes.
- Small changes can be made directly to the `main` branch.
- Otherwise large features should have a new branch.

## Secrets

#### See https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G5f6GC7SnhU for more info if needed.
Secrets file is located at *./secrets/secret.yaml* and it's encrypted.
- To edit: `sops secrets/secret.yaml`. This should open nano with the unencrypted file, which you can make changes to. Save and exit, then commit the file.
- Access to secrets in builds is done like:
```nix
text = ''
  echo ${config.sops.secrets.mySecret.path}
  # or
  echo ${config.sops.secrets."path/to/secret".path}
'';
```


## Notes

* Note the *#HOST_NAME*, this references the name of the config in `nixosConfigurations` within *~/nixos/flake.nix*
* You can run `man home-configuration.nix` to get a list of useful home-manager settings and configurations.
* When making new nix files, **make sure to commit them first**, otherwise nix will not be able to find them.
* */boot/kernels* may occasionally fill up with unused linux kernels and need to be manually cleaned up, i.e. `sudo rm /boot/kernels/*6.6.33*`
* Nix caches build results, so if no files have changed, running a build again will produce the same output or error. Keep this in mine when trying to fix an error like the */boot* disk space issue.
